Name: Ryan Duckworth
Date: 5/5/16
Course: COMP 440 Database Design

Database Disaster Recovery Policy

A database is meant to hold key information for safe keeping and for Business Intelligence/Business Value.

However, in the event of a disaster that destroys or otherwise harms the database this Recovery Policy will
assist in resuming normal operations in a timely fashion.

The most important part of this policy is the routine backup of the database. This policy will use the SQL
Simple Recovery Model. Under this model, routine backups of the database are performed at set intervals and
in the event of data loss or database damage, the most recent backup will be used to restore the database.

The rationale for using this model over more comprehensive model is that due to the low volume of data being
managed by this database currently, the risk associated with a simple model is worth losing the extra overhead
involved with a more complex backup model.

In the Disaster Recovery folder where this text document is located, you will find a database_backup.sql file.
This file is used to initiate a backup of the database to the specified location on the attached disk drive.
This script can be used to perform routine backups. It is recommended to backup daily with the current volume
of data entering the database.

Also in the Disaster Recovery folder is a full_database_dump.sql and sql_full_sample_data_insert_queries.sql files.
These sql files can be used to restore the database tables, stored procedures, indexes, sample data, and relationships to the state
they were at the time of this text file's creation. (5/5/16) These sql files should only be used if the data on the database
itself is not desired. If the data is desired, then restoring from a backup that was made using the
database_backup.sql script should be used instead.

If this policy is followed, then even in the event of a database disaster, the most important data in the database
should be backed up and ready to be recovered.